Calling Swift code from Node JS (#83)
Bootstragram/bootstragram-blog: _posts/2021-10-29-swift-interface-for-node-js.md

---
layout: post
id: 7BCAA9BD-00B0-458E-A745-1D9E7DA51BE7
title: "Calling Swift code from Node JS"
author: Mick F
excerpt: >-
  Swift and JavaScript can interact in many different ways. Let’s explore how we
  could create a dynamic library with Swift code, so that we can call that code
  from Node JS.
category: Journaling
tags:
  - JavaScript
  - Swift
  - TypeScript
---

> For the last 3 or 4 years, on a daily basis, I write either

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the last 4 years, on a daily basis, I write either
```

JavaScript/TypeScript code (mostly React for the web) or Swift code (mostly for
iOS). I sometimes feel like Megan at the beginning of [_Daddy’s Home 2_][1] when
she goes on stage to reveal that she just wants a normal Christmas instead of
having to celebrate two Christmases in two families[^1].

Yes, I sometimes want my 2 co-languages to live under the same roof.

## How can JavaScript & Swift interact

JavaScript and Swift can interact in many different ways. A non-exhaustive list:

> - **Running JavaScript from Swift code**. Thanks to [JavaScriptCore][6], this is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Running JavaScript from Swift code**. Thanks to [JavaScriptCore][6], this option is
```

  actually pretty easy. I gave [a talk about it][8] during a Paris CocoaHeads
  session.[^2];
- **Running Swift code from JavaScript inside the browser**. Thanks to the

>   [Swift WASM project][9], this is also actually pretty easy. But I couldn’t

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [Swift WASM project][9], this solution is also actually pretty easy. But I couldn’t
```

  find a good use case for it. And during my POC, a simple Hello World being
  displayed in the browser would weigh almost 40 MB so I didn’t pursue this
  lead.

{% asset wasm-hello-world.png alt="A screenshot of a WASM hello world weighing 38.47 MB" %}

> - **👉 Running Swift code from JavaScript in the terminal with Node 👈**. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **👉 Running Swift code from JavaScript in the terminal with Node 👈**. This interaction
```

  is actually what this post is about! A use case could be to write a command
  line interface that would use [oclif][7] for user interactions while running
  Swift code under the hood. Sweet.

> - I am sure there are many other possible interactions. If you can think of one,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am sure there are other possible Javascript/Swift interactions. If you can think of one,
```

  pull requests are welcome.

A classic way for 2 languages to run hand-in-hand is actually to run
hand-in-hand-in-hand with a dynamic library in the middle. So our plan is pretty
simple:

> - 1️⃣ Write some Swift code;

Reviewer: Formatting here doesn't look right =>
<img width="646" alt="Screenshot 2021-10-30 at 10 27 05" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6272607/139525924-9d45f792-1c9c-4ae9-a8d3-2d97e7afa2a9.png">

- 2️⃣ Turn this code into a dynamic library;
- 3️⃣ Use this dynamic library with Node.

## Writing a dynamic library in Swift

In real-life, the plan was trickier and there was a lot of back and forth
between all of the steps.

> Using Swift Package Manager, creating a dynamic library is done like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can first create a dynamic library using Swift Package Manager:
```

```swift
// Package.swift
.library(name: "MyDynamicLibrary", type: .dynamic, targets: ["MyLibrary"])
```

Pretty basic. Let’s move on to a simple function that will greet whatever will

> passed as an argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be passed as an argument.
```

My oh-so-naive first draft of interfacable code looked like this:

```swift
public func greet(name: String) -> String {
    return "Hello, \(name)!"
}
```

But my successful attempt ended up looking like this:

```swift
@_cdecl("greet")
public func greet(
    cStringName: UnsafePointer<Int8>,
    outputSize: Int16,
    output: UnsafeMutablePointer<Int8>
) -> Bool {
    let name = String(cString: cStringName)
    let cString = "Hello, \(name)!".cString(using: .utf8)!
    for (index, char) in cString.enumerated() {
        if (index >= outputSize) {
            return false
        }
        output.advanced(by: index).pointee = char
    }
    return true
}
```

Lessons learned:

- An interoperable string is actually called a C String, which translates to a
  `UnsafePointer<Int8>`;

> - I would get an error returning the output as a result of the function. My

Reviewer: what is the lesson here? the last line? if so, start with that, and then explain how you got there.

  `@_cdecl` annotation][10] that is still private with Swift.

Rough trip. But it was fun.

## Using the dynamic library from Node

Similarly, this is the end result for the Node code and the lessons learned.

```node
var ffi = require("ffi-napi");

var myLib = ffi.Library(
  "../MyLibrary/.build/x86_64-apple-macosx/debug/libMyDynamicLibrary.dylib",
  {
    greet: ["bool", ["string", "long", "char *"]],
  }
);

const maxStringLength = 20;
const theStringBuffer = Buffer.alloc(maxStringLength);

const isSuccess = myLib.greet("Mick", maxStringLength, theStringBuffer);
if (isSuccess) {
  // Retrieve and convert the result back to a javascript string
  var theString = theStringBuffer.toString("utf-8");
  console.log(`The string: ${theString}`);
  process.exit(0);
} else {
  console.error(`Calling greet failed.`);
  process.exit(1);
}
```

- A dependency was required to interoperate with our dylib. Such libs are
  usually called _FFI_, standing for [_Foreign Function Interface_][5]. The
  [`ffi`][3] module didn’t work. Not sure why 🤷. [`ffi-napi`][4] did work. Its
  documentation is good enough to get inspired by examples for simple use cases;

> - The rest was pretty straightforward.

Reviewer: this is not a lesson learned. You can take this out of the bullet list.

## Epilogue

```shell
➜  node node index.js
The string: --Hello, Mick!--
```

> 💪🎉

Reviewer: It's not clear that the article is over, maybe some more text to make that clearer (even though I assume it's in the code).
